Okay, progressing right along,
we're gonna turn our attention to
a somewhat different kind of a problem.
I alluded to this previously, that we're
gonna turn our attention to words.
And we're gonna talk about algorithmically
solving problems around words.
So, this I call Wordy Unscrambler.
I don't know if any of you have ever
played games like Wordscapes or
these other games where you have
to mix and match letters, or
reorder letters to spell different words.
I used to play Wordscapes a whole bunch,
and I think I got to like level 2000 or
something in Wordscapes and
I was like it's the same game.
It's never getting harder or different or
more interesting, so I gave up.
Anyways, I used to play
a lot of Wordscapes.
And I also used to cheat at Wordscapes.
There are websites out there where you can
give it a set of letters that can make
a word and
it'll tell you all the different
words that you could make for that.
And so occasionally,
I would get stuck on a puzzle and
I would go and use one of those
cheating websites for that.
And that's what inspired
me to make a problem,
because I wondered what would be the
algorithmic approach to trying to do this
unscrambling of letters
into real dictionary words.
So that's what we're gonna be
tackling in Wordy Unscrambler.
So let's think about this, again,
we're gonna take this in little pieces.
We're gonna try to get a working solution,
and
then we're gonna try to optimize
it just like we've done before.
This one is almost less
about the algorithm and
almost more about picking
the right data structure.
Because the choice of data structure is
gonna end up being the whole game here.
So just as a forewarning
in some of the other ones,
it was really more about what algorithm
is the right algorithm to pick here.
It's the right data structure.
In general,
both of those are really critical
choices in any solution that you write.
The data structure you pick and
the algorithm that you use, they have to
be well-matched together, and they both
have to be well-aligned to the problem.
And we've learned that lesson somewhat
painfully over the last several exercises.
So the same will be true here but
it's more heavily weighted on
choosing the right data structure.
And that is a difficult task because
if you haven't seen a data structure,
it's hard for you to even conceive
of what data structure to look for.
It's hard to know what to Google for.
So really, at least part of this is just
exposing you to a few other kinds of data
structures that you maybe haven't
worked with very much, so
that you have more words to use for
your Google searches.
All right, so let's say that we had
the input letters, P, C, E, R, and A.
And yes, that set of letters
is actually my little pun,
because that's how old I am,
I grew up in the PC era,
back before we had all these laptops and
stuff like that.
I grew up where we built desktop
computers and put hard drives in them.
And I was working in MS-DOS 3.0 like so.
I go way, way back, so yes,
there's a little bit of a pun there.
But if we just started with those letters,
P, C, E, R, and
A, and we tried to come up with a list
of the possible matching words,
we would need a dictionary, a list of
valid words to be able to match against.
So if we started out with this dictionary,
and
we said what words of this dictionary
could be made by unscrambling,
reordering some or all of these letters?
So, it's pretty straightforward that we
could run through and see that the word
can is not able to be made by those
letters, but cap, cape, car, care can.
Sorry, my check marks are misaligned here,
but
you can visually shift
those check marks up.
That we've got cap, cape,
car, care, and ear.
Those are able to be made, but
the other ones are not able to be made
because there's a missing letter.
There's a missing N in our input,
that's why can,
there's a missing L, and
there's a missing H.
That's why those words can't be made.
So, if we started to try to
formulate an algorithm for this,
what is one of the first most important
questions that we wanna tackle?
What occurs to you as a question that
we should ask about this problem?
>> First one that occurs to me is
how am I checking against words?
Do I have a big word bank
that I can go into and-
>> What is my word list,
what is my dictionary, and
where am I gonna get a dictionary?
That's a very important question, right?
Similar to, I don't know the periodic
table elements by heart like my kids do,
so how do I get a list of periodic table?
Fortunately, that was simply
a quick Google away and
I found a JSON file with
the periodic table.
I thought, surely I'll be able to
Google good English words dot JSON and
out would spit a nice, well-formatted,
great-to-use dictionary.
That turns out to be completely not true.
It turns out that it's much,
much harder than I would have
liked to get a dictionary.
Because it turns out that that's not
actually a very well-defined concept.
What is a dictionary word?
Let me give you some examples.
The word laser, L-A-S-E-R.
Should that be a dictionary word or
should that not be a dictionary word?
That's actually a subjective question
that not everybody agrees on.
Why?
You might not know this, but
laser is actually an acronym.
And some people say that acronyms
don't belong in a dictionary.
And other people say, well,
it's a commonly used word,
so it belongs in the dictionary.
There's a ton of subjectivity here.
What about contractions like don't and
can't?
Should those show up in a dictionary?
What about plurals and other conjugations
of words like with ed or ing?
Are those words that should be
separately in a dictionary, or
should they just be applied or
assumed from the conjugation of a word?
There's tons of subjectivity here on what
should or should not be a valid word?
There's also offensive words, and
how we even define what is
offensive is hugely subjective.
And I don't even wanna wade into
the waters of what makes something
an offensive word or not an offensive word
from all different angles, religious, and
cultural, and so forth.
So it turns out that it's not very easy to
just Google and say, give me the list of
dictionary words and then I can
start running my algorithm against.
You'll notice in the project
that I've provided for
you that I provided you three
different dictionaries.
One is a very tiny dictionary
that only has 80 words in it.
One of them is somewhat longer
dictionary of about 2400 somewhat
common English words that I actually
hand picked all 2400 of those words.
And then there is a really giant
dictionary of 300,000 something words,
and that is one that I just found
somewhere, and it has a ton of junk in it.
It has all kinds of acronyms and
abbreviations.
That's another one, abbreviations.
Should abbreviations
show up in a dictionary?
Another subjective question.
So I provided you those three
different JSON files because it's
going to be useful for
us in terms of our performance
benchmarking to check against
different sizes of dictionary.
So in our little application, we'll have
a selector where you'll pick the tiny
dictionary, the regular dictionary,
or the very long dictionary, and
we'll see different timings as a result.
And importantly, the reason why that is in
our app, why we're doing that, is because
there are different performances that we
actually need to concern ourselves with.
That's not a monolithic idea,
like how fast things run because there's
the startup performance, and
then there's the run-time performance.
And we haven't really
talked about that much, but
there is a tradeoff sometimes
between doing more work up front,
things take a little bit longer to start
up, but then it runs faster as it goes.
That's yet another tradeoff axis
that we have to be worried about.
So when we load up a data structure
with our dictionary words, it might be
a really fast data structure to build, but
it might be kinda slow to walk through.
Or it might be kind of a slower
data structure to build, but
really, really fast to walk through.
So you can see the trade-offs, and
we'll have timings in our app for
the loading of the dictionary
data structure and for
the searching of
the dictionary data structure.
Before we go any further,
there's actually one more
critical question that we need to
ask to clarify the behavior here.
And I wonder if it occurs to anyone
what that question should be.
>> Can we use letters twice?
>> That is the question.
They got it.
That's an important question here.
What if I have a single P
in my input characters,
am I allowed to do words that have
two P's in it, like the word appear?
Would we want to allow appear to match
here because it's reusing the P and
it's reusing the A?
That's a question, and it turns out the
answer is no, we don't wanna allow that.
[LAUGH] We do not want to allow
the duplication of letters.
Now, that's a choice that we're making.
You might think it seems like it would
be easier to allow the duplication.
It's much harder to do this algorithm and
to come up with a data structure
that allows the repetition.
So we're going to choose not to
allow repetition of the inputs.
If you want to have two P's,
then you have to put that in the input.
But again, going back to the very
beginning of the workshop,
asking these kinds of clarifying
questions, radically changes the kinds of
data structures and algorithms
that we use to solve the problem.
You don't wanna ask that
question after three or
four weeks of implementation work.
You wanna ask that question
during requirements gathering.
I cannot emphasize enough,
that is not the product manager's job,
that's the algorithmist's job, right?
You have to make sure you understand
the entire constraints of the problem.
You won't understand it, but you have to
understand as much of it as you can and
ask as many of those questions early.
So developing the habit of asking
those questions is a key skill.